Hi, welcome to Bookey. Today we will unlock the book The End of Average: How We Succeed in a World That Values Sameness. \n\nThis book focuses on the uniqueness of individuals in society, how we are not standard components nor industrial products, and how we cannot be measured or judged by averaged metrics.\n\nIn the late 1940s, the United States Air Force was experiencing serious problems with their fighter jets. Pilots were finding the planes challenging to operate, frequently experiencing accidents such as inexplicable drops, failed landings, and even fatal crashes. According to one retired pilot, there was a single horrible day where 17 fighters crashed.\n\nA large-scale investigation later discovered that there was no problem with the plane itself, nor with the pilots' flying skills. The actual reason was surprising—the cockpit design was fundamentally flawed. The size and shape of the seat, the distance to the pedals and stick, and the windshield height were all fixed figures designed according to the average dimensions of pilots in 1926, the year the planes were first designed. However, the pilots of the late 1940s who were now operating these jets had extremely different body proportions. The military examined 4,063 pilots on ten body measurements, such as height, foot, and leg length, and found that none of them met all ten averaged criteria that the jets were designed on. Even when they looked into just three measurements: neck, wrist, and thigh circumference, only 3.5 percent of the pilots were considered “average”.\n\nIt turned out, that when designing this jet fighter, although each pilot's body size was different, the military thought a standard set of measurements would be sufficient. Their belief was that, if the cockpit was tailored according to an average body size index,  then that the design would fit better and reduce accidents. However, reality proved otherwise. The standardized cockpit design appeared to be the most significant cause of non-combat casualties among pilots.\n\nWhy is this so? Why did cockpits tailored to the average body size of a pilot not improve their performance, but bring about fault and even cost some of their lives? We will explore the answers in three parts:\n\nPart One: The age of average: How did we come to value sameness? \n\nPart Two: The principles of individuality: From the many to one\n\nPart Three: The age of individuals: The global need to end averagarianism